# Assembler & Simulator

This repository contains the assembler and simulator program with evaluation program implemented in Python. The assembler program is situated in Simple-Assembler directory.
The program takes input from the evaluation program, processes the assembly code, and generates a binary output. The `assembler.py` file is responsible for performing the assembly instructions and generating the corresponding machine code.
The simulator program is situated in SimpleSimulator directory which also takes test inputs from automatedTesting program and then processes the instruction and generates the data stored in registries as well as the memory. The `simulator.py` file is responsible for processing instructions and showing data stored in registries and memory.
The automated Testing directory is responsible for the evaluation.

## Requirements

To run the assembler program, make sure you have the following installed:

- Python3
- python module named 'bitstring'

## Usage

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Open a terminal or command prompt.
3. Navigate to the directory automatedTesting.
4. Run the following command to execute the assembler:
    ./run 
5. The program will process the inputs and generate the marks report based on the machine code generated by assembler.py and simulator.py from Simple-Assembler and SimpleSimulator directory respectively.

## Bonus instructions
Following are our bonus instructions:
Opcode          Instruction         Semantics               Syntax              Type
10001               mod          performs reg1=         mod reg1 reg2 reg3        A
                                   reg2 % reg3.

10100               pow          performs reg1=         pow reg1 reg2 reg3        A
                                   reg2 ** reg3.

10000               xnor         performs xnor on       xnor reg1 reg2 reg3       A   
                                reg2 and reg3 and
                              stores the value in reg1 

10010               nor         performs nor on         nor reg1 reg2 reg3        A   
                                reg2 and reg3 and
                              stores the value in reg1    

10011               nand         performs nand on       nand reg1 reg2 reg3       A   
                                reg2 and reg3 and
                              stores the value in reg1            


## Contributing

The contributors for this project are: 
1. Mohd Irfan Raza
2. Bhaskar Kashyap
3. Md Kaif
4. Mayank Kumar